there is plenty of evidence to suggest
that Bush wanted this crisis and that
the Bush administration policy was to
encourage Saddam Hussein and his party
to believe that they could take over
Kuwait
either in whole or in part with impunity
this new world order or new
international order that Bush is talking
about looks to me like a an
institutionalization or attempt to
institutionalize the north/south
dimension of the old Cold War which was
a war for natural resources for labor
and for markets we used to export you
know simply the hardware tanks aircraft
and so forth but this time we sent
across the hardware and the people to
operate it that turned it into a classic
mercenary operation the sending abroad
of military forces to defend a foreign
regime Bush called the Persian Gulf
crisis the greatest crisis since World
War two remember that the greatest moral
crisis since World War two well of
course he was totally wrong the greatest
crisis in world war two is the domestic
crisis in the United States in education
in health care we all know what the
domestic crisis is in this country it is
racism it is drugs it is violence of
every sort it is the worst educational
system in the developed world it is a
system in which one in three people is
living in poverty either totally or in
absolute poverty or so close that they
have no relief from want where one in
three people is illiterate either
totally or to the degree that they
cannot function or get along in a
society based on the written word 2% of
American families own 54 percent of the
net financial assets of this country
those are the people who really run the
United States of course and they are the
people for who that whom the CIA serves
as does Bush and
those people in the administration and
the professionals who service these very
wealthy people those of course our our
version of the Latin American oligarchs
former CIA officer Phil Agee evaluates
the Gulf War and places it in context of
American society and the US power
structure right now on alternative views
Philip Agee was a CIA officer from 1960
to 1969 serving in Ecuador Uruguay and
Mexico City he quit the CIA and wrote a
very significant book inside the company
since that time Agee has been travelling
around the world and writing books and
making speeches this Beach which will
see on alternative views was recorded in
April of 1991 at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology
we'll have Phil AG's speech in a few
minutes after a couple of news stories
from the alternative press well here we
are in the midst of recession
well well aware of that layoffs are
rising corporate profits are weak lots
of bankruptcy but during this time pay
in 1994 the nation's top executives rose
by a bigger percentage than the wages of
any other group of American workers many
chairman and CEO s receive these huge
annual salaries under what the corporate
system calls paper for performance in
other words as corporate profits rise so
do executive profits however in 1990
neither profits north stock prices rose
at hundreds of companies but the pay of
top echelon executives went way up
anyway now these increase this came when
most American workers received raises of
less than 5% which didn't even keep up
with inflation but the average pay for
chief executives of large companies runs
up to 80 well up to over 100 but
averages 83 times 83 times the annual
wages of the American average American
worker the gap is 83 times gap
doubled in the last 15 years it was 41
in 1977 41 times now it's 83 times and
also the spread between America's
executives and those of other industrial
nations have increased other industrial
nations their top executives run 20
times their average workers so our guys
are getting an average of four times
more relatively than other CEOs in
industrialized nations in fact we
receive we are chief executives received
twice as much as our counterparts in
Canada and Germany and they rank second
and third and CEO salaries a survey by
peat Marwick when the Big Eight County
firms a big company shows that in 1990
executive pay rose by more than 15
percent over 1989 levels
remember that the average worker got
less than 5% you might wonder how much
that is how much these people are
actually taking home well at the hundred
and seventy six big corporations
surveyed by Stephen Bryce who tracks
executive pay practices at this
accounting firm towers parent the median
compensation for CEOs at these hundred
six corporations was 1.7 million dollars
in 1990 and for you mathematicians out
there that's thirty four thousand
dollars a month
according to Dennis Bernstein of the
Pacific News Service the worst is still
yet to come for the Iraqi people or
international attention has focused on
the desperate plight of Iraq's Kurds
millions of other Iraqis are also grave
risk especially children say
international relief organizations and
medical experts who have toured Iraq in
recent weeks and the Bush administration
has no plans to attend to the burgeoning
health catastrophe for the Iraqi people
according to dr. David Levinson after
visiting Iraq with the Pulitzer Prize
winning no doubt the Nobel prize-winning
international physicians for the
Prevention of nuclear war the wars real
[ __ ] lies in the destruction of the
health of an entire people through
targeting key parts of the
infrastructure that supports civilian
life Under Secretary of the United
Nations Martti Ahtisaari who's the
leader of the UN's mid-march
investigation team that toured through
Iraq echoes this sentiment noting that
we have seen or read has quite prepared
us for the particular form of
devastation which has befallen the
country now most forms of modern life
support have been destroyed or rendered
tenuous these life support systems begin
with water prior to the war according to
Bernstein the average citizen of Baghdad
received 450 litres of water a day that
are pumped from the Tigris River through
the electrical powered water treatment
stations but the destruction of all
significant electrical power generating
plants in Iraq has rendered this source
of water supply useless and turned water
from a source of life into a prime
character carrier of death and disease
according to the United Nations pumps
depend on power the UN says which they
don't have and the water and sewage
treatment depends on chemicals which are
also blocked by the embargo as a result
raw sewage is being dumped into the
Tigris and sometimes even backing up
overflowing into people's homes many
Iraqis reduced to subsisting on 30 to 40
litres of water a day have turned to
drawing polluted water from the Tigris
this combination is a recipe for a
public health catastrophe at the height
of the air war according to Iraq's
Minister of Health Abdul Mohammed the
greatest concern was from bad drinking
water he estimated that 3,000 deaths had
already occurred from bad drinking water
and probably 2,000 people are under some
kind of medical care from drinking
contaminated water since then saved the
children reports the typhoid cases have
tripled diarrhea cases have quadrupled
and polio and meningitis have reappeared
concerns that these diseases could reach
epidemic proportions are compounded by
the damage sustained by Iraq's
healthcare system for instance 14
hospitals and healthcare facilities were
damaged in the bot bombing that even a
bigger problem is the lack of electrical
power without power according to doctors
who have visited Iraq all that we
associate with modern health the storing
of blood the preparation of cultures
preserving medicines and vaccines for
children's doing x-rays all these
techniques of modern medicine become
impossible at some hospitals that the
physicians for Social Responsibility
visited doctors were performing surgery
under kerosene lamps often on victims
burned in accidents with kerosene
utensils hospitals also according to
these doctors lack basic medicine and
enough clean water for adequate
sanitation one doctor told the visiting
US doctors that he's afraid and instead
of being a place where diseases are
cured the hospital is going to be a
place where diseases are being spread
other problems according to ax fam which
is international relief organization is
the health care workers can't get out
into the fields to visit the small towns
of Iraq to prevent the spread of
epidemics and according to the
International Red Cross there's also a
wave
of epidemics that are beginning to
spread through the south of Iraq through
Basra that was destroyed by bombing
Allied bombing and then suffered from
the Civil War and all of the small towns
of southern Iraq are already facing
cholera and other epidemics the food
situation is also grim in Iraq Iraq
imports 70% of its food and the seven
months of sanctions compared with
coupled with the war have also severely
squeezed existing supplies the
destruction of key agricultural
facilities including animal vaccine
factories many seed warehouses have
jeopardized future harvests making
widespread starvation a real possibility
another problem I read in peace net was
that the United States will not allow
the Iraqis to use their helicopters to
drop pesticides on some of the crops
that require pesticides for our survival
so whereas Bush allowed the Iraqis to
use helicopters to bomb the Kurds and
some of the Shiite rebels in the south
they're not allowing the Iraqis to use
their hila copters anymore to spray
pesticides on their fields and so thus
the Iraqis are facing starvation so
according to all of the international
health organizations that have visited
Iraq recently it's a human catastrophe
in Iraq according to the UN it's near
apocalyptic conditions and none of this
has been indicated on the mainstream
media that just shows Americans soldiers
first doing favors for the refugees in
the south of Iraq and more recently
helping the Kurds out in the north of
Iraq but according to Tony courtesan who
courtesan who you heard on ABC as there
a commentator the Iraqi people deserve
all of this punishment he told a
Brookings Institute seminar that the
Iraqi people should be punished for
tolerating their government he said I
think we should use economic concessions
to try to force Saddam Hussein out of
power and in the process we should not
become too involved with the harm that
is done to the Iraqi people because they
deserve anything that happens to them
we'll have more news stories later in
the program but now we're going to turn
to our speech by Phil Agee presented by
the speak out organization from San
Francisco Phil was a CIA officer for
nine years serving in Latin America
well we all know that we why the United
States went into the Gulf we were
responding to naked aggression we were
preserving and defending quote-unquote
our way of life jobs were at stake you
remember that one from Baker and then it
was a return to stopping naked
aggression and the aggression cannot be
rewarded we all know that we responded
from moral principle and from political
principle we also know that Bush went
into the Persian Gulf in order to
restore to his throne the Emir or
dictator of Kuwait and here we have seen
just recently his return and the
development of Kuwait or the return to
way of that principled democratic system
they have thereof based on what we all
treasure one man one vote one vote by
the Emir well there are alternative
explanations I think and analyses of why
we went into the Persian Gulf one that
we haven't seen really in any meaningful
way is the interpretation that a crisis
was needed to replace the crisis in
Western Europe the east/west crisis
which largely disappeared with the
collapse of communism in Eastern Europe
a crisis that would allow for the
continuation of the 40 odd year-old war
economy in the United States where in
more than half the budget the federal
budget is taken up with military
expenditures you know that the official
figure for 1990 was 26% of the national
budget going to military expenditures
but that 26% is very convenient for
those who want to cover it up because
they do not factor into that 20% or 26%
many of the most important military
costs such as interest on the national
debt from past military expenditures the
retirement benefits for tens of
thousands of former Department of
Defense employees civilian employees and
many other items analysts who have
studied this the matter have come up
with figures going up to 55 to 60
percent people like gore Vidal puts it
at two-thirds the federal budget going
for national defense well that is a
system which was certainly at risk
wasn't it with the collapse of communism
in in Europe and the only reason that
that could have been kept going all
through these years has been of course
the so-called Soviet threat or the
permanent crisis atmosphere that
developed following 1950 and the Korean
War there is plenty of evidence to
suggest that Bush wanted this crisis and
that the Bush administration policy was
to encourage Saddam Hussein and his
party to believe that they could take
over Kuwait or either in whole or in
part with impunity
consider the following Iraq already had
historical claims over Kuwait for
several centuries Kuwait had been the
southern part of the Basra province of
the Ottoman Empire under the Turks and
when after World War two with the
collapse of the Ottoman Empire Kuwait
was severed from Basra the Iraqis did
not accept it the British at that time
had moved in as the French did in other
parts of the Middle East in order to
fill the vacuum left with the collapse
of the Turkish Empire the British in
1922 drew the first lines in the sand
delineating boundaries for the first
time in history between Jordan Iraq
Kuwait and Saudi Arabia these lines
drawn by Sir Percy Cox in 1922 he was
the British High Commissioner in Baghdad
these lines were drawn deliberately to
deprive Iraq of a viable seaport the
British wanted no competition from
Baghdad which
at that time the cultural and commercial
capital of the Gulf region - their
dominance of the Persian Gulf where they
converted no less than 10 shape terms
into colonies including Kuwait when
Kuwait was given its independence by the
British in 1961 the Iraqis massed troops
on the border and threatened to take the
territory back by force but Britain
rushed military forces to Kuwait and the
Iraqis back down the Iraqis threatened
to do the very same thing in 1972 and
1976 so there were historical Iraqi
claims on Kuwait there were also
immediate grievances based partly on
Kuwaiti overproduction of petroleum in
1986 the OPEC countries had set $18 per
barrel as the bench price for for the
world petroleum market but the Kuwaiti
's and the United Arab Emirates for
quite a long time since then had been
over producing forcing the price down as
low as about 13 dollars last June that
price was the best price that
industrialised countries and importers
like the United States were paying for
petroleum at constant dollars for more
than 40 years it was hurting the Iraqi
economy because the Iraqis had something
like seventy to eighty billion dollars
in debt from their war their eight-year
war with Iran during the 1980s and they
were demanding that the Iraqis forgive
those loans which had helped finance
that war so there are a number of
different immediate grievances another
one was the theft of petroleum from
Iraq's Rumaila
field which is this vast oil field
dipping into disputed territory between
Iraq and Kuwait in April the Assistant
Secretary of State for Middle Eastern
affairs a man whose name is John Kelly
testified before the US Congress that
the United States had no commitment to
defend Kuwait in July the OPEC oil
ministers met in Geneva
that's mid
July and Iraq was demanding a raise in
the oil price and also the the
elimination of overproduction on the
part of Kuwait and the Emirates Iraq at
that time massed 30,000 troops on the
Kuwaiti border Hussein got part of what
he wanted the the Emirates and Kuwait
agreed to stop over producing new quotas
were silk said in order to maintain a
new price of twenty one dollars per
barrel
even though Iraq had asked for 25 in any
case things were not settled even with
that because Iraq was continuing to
demand that Kuwait leased to Iraq two
small islands Mubi under barber in the
at the head of the Persian Gulf which
would have provided Iraq with a viable
seaport Kuwait refused Kuwait also
refused to forgive the loans that had
been made to finance Iraq's war with
Iran negotiators met in Saudi Arabia
between the two countries on the 1st of
August Kuwait did not compromise and the
next day Saddam Hussein invaded well the
United States was not unaware that this
was coming
by any means on April 25th some of you
have read this I'm sure honey I mean on
July 25th April Glaspie the US
ambassador to Iraq had a meeting a
face-to-face meeting with Saddam Hussein
at that meeting she said according to a
transcript
apparently the Iraqis recorded the
conversation secretly and later made
available the transcript a transcript
which by the way has not been disputed
by the Department of State at this
meeting the US ambassador said to Saddam
Hussein I have a direct instruction from
the Secretary of State to emphasize to
you that the United States has
quote/unquote no opinion on your border
disputes with Kuwait she also said I
have an instruction from the president
to seek better relations with Iraq at
this time there were 100,000 Iraqi
troops poised on the border because
after the OPEC conference in Geneva in
Geneva in mid-july the Iraqis did not
withdraw those 30,000 troops they more
than tripled them
- something like 100,000 during this
time also in the days following or the
week following the ambassador's meeting
with the Seine up to the invasion the
CIA according to press reports and
according to senator Boren who is the
chairman of the Senate Intelligence
Committee the CIA was predicting that
Iraq would invade Kuwait and in fact in
the meeting between the US ambassador
and Hussein Hussein himself responded to
her saying in effect that he was going
to take drastic action against Kuwait if
they did not agree to his demands so it
was as clear as crystal
I believe that Hussein was going to
invade Kuwait but during the that week
that crucial week between the
ambassador's meeting with the sane and
the invasion with those 100,000 Iraqi
troops on the border the Bush
administration did absolutely nothing
and there were things they could have
done they could have called for example
aid an emergency meeting of the United
Nations Security Council they could have
sent a multinational military force to
Kuwait to defend that country just as
the British had done earlier they could
have issued public warnings but they did
something to the contrary they
prohibited the United States Information
Agency from making a warning to Hussein
on a program that had been scheduled the
Assistant Secretary of State John Kelly
himself killed that program and forbid
any US government warnings to Hussein or
to the thousands of people who might
become hostages in the event of an
invasion of Kuwait then two days before
the invasion the same Assistant
Secretary of State John Kelly goes
before the Congress one more time and
again he says the United States has no
commitment to defend Kuwait well put all
those things together and it certainly
seems to add up to a situation in which
the United States was enticing or
encouraging Hussein to take over Kuwait
in order to create a new international
crisis in a key position of the world
certainly if Hussein took over Kuwait he
would control then 20%
of the known petroleum reserves in the
world a concentration in radical
nationalist Arab hands that would be too
great to be accepted by any Western
industrialized country and even by
Iraq's principled arms supplier the
Soviet Union
well when bush came out with the remark
very early on that quote our way of life
is at stake he reminded me quite clearly
of something that President Truman had
said back in 1950 you know the decision
was taken in 1950 to establish the
permanent war economy that is to make
military expenditures the motor of the
US economy it was because there was
tremendous fear that we were heading
back to the conditions of the depression
of the 1930s during those first five
years after the end of World War two up
to 1950 the United States economy had
contracted or the GNP had declined by
20% and unemployment which had been
almost nothing in 1945 700,000 had gone
up to 4.7 million the highest echelons
of the Truman administration considered
the problem and decided that the way to
avoid a return to the condition of the
1930s was military expenditures
rearmament in the United States and in
Western Europe the entire plan was drawn
up in a document called NSC 68 NSC
standing for National Security Council
it was written by Paul nipsey who was
then the chief of the policy planning
staff of the Department of State this is
a 40 page document was top-secret for 25
years and released only by accident in
1975 and published my version of it
which comes from the Naval War College
magazine runs to about 48 or 50 pages
it's a world analysis and the u.s. role
in the world the key flows from that
document was this the United States and
other free nations will within a period
of a few years at most experienced a
decline in economic activity
various proportions unless more positive
governmental programs are developed well
the solution adopted the more positive
governmental programs was the rearming
not only of the United States but also
of Western Europe the problem we faced
at that time from an economic point of
view was that United States exports were
not sufficient to sustain the economy
and the subsidy program known as the
Marshall Plan having failed there had to
be other ways to get enough dollars over
to Western Europe to foment European
imports from the United States that
would sustain the US economy and
remilitarization of Western Europe with
Germany West Germany as the key pivotal
country was adopted the money was
transferred then in billions of dollars
through so-called defense support grants
and the economic situation in the United
States was saved at least through that
method and we have been with this
permanent war economy ever since of
course it took a crisis it took a threat
and the Department of State and other
agencies set about to create that
permanent crisis atmosphere to create
the Soviet Union as a threat to our way
of life but because there are so much
money involved
Truman could not get the money from
Congress right away it took the Korean
War a real crisis to enable him to
defeat congressional opposition and get
the money the war you know started in
June 1950 and by September the Allied
troops with which the United States had
formed under a an alliance and under the
UN banner very similar to the Gulf
crisis had forced the North Koreans back
up to the 38th parallel the boundary and
that is what the UN sanctions called for
for expelling North Korea from South
Korea that would have ended the war
right then and there three months after
it started
if Truman had accepted a Soviet proposal
in the United Nations but he had to keep
this crisis going because he needed to
use the Korean War to overcome
congressional
opposition to this rearmament program he
had another plan he violated the UN the
UN Charter or the UN resolutions in fact
by invading North Korea threatening to
overthrow the communist government of
North Korea and reunite the country
under the dictatorship that the United
States had imposed in a South well the
Chinese said they were going to come
into the war if that advance toward the
Yellow River the boundary between North
Korea and China was not stopped Truman
did not stop the forces the Chinese
entered and by november US forces were
again retreating south by December the
newspapers here that all the media were
full of stories and pictures of
retreating US troops before hordes of
advancing Chinese communist troops it
was then early December that Truman went
on national radio he declared a state of
national emergency and he said what
Bush's remarks about our way of life
being a state reminded me of Truman
mustered all the hype and emotion that
he could and he said our homes our
nation all the things that we believe in
are in great danger
this danger has been created by the
rulers of the Soviet Union well he also
called at that time for massive
increases in u.s. rearmament
expenditures and for the rearmament of
Western Europe he got the money then but
of course the Soviet was not a threat at
all they were still rebuilding from the
rubble of World War two where they had
lost something like 20 million people
they were not a threat but this was part
of the whole scenario to create the
international crisis the international
threat in order to justify the
militarism which Truman was beginning
and he got the money he wanted the in
two years from 1950 to 1952 the US
military budget more than tripled from
13 billion in nineteen fifty to forty
four billion in 1952 and US military
forces doubled to three point six
million people from that time on we have
lived in the United States with this
military economy and that is the thing
that bush I think in the Gulf wanted to
save he had to have another crisis as
I've said twice already he had to have
another crisis to replace the one that
disappeared in Western Europe well in
the Cold War you know there was a there
were several dimensions a lot of people
you will hear say the Cold War is over
well I say to those who think the Cold
War is over that they should think once
more the east-west dimension in Western
Europe between the United States and
NATO and the Soviet Union and the Warsaw
Pact that east-west dimension in Europe
has indeed largely disappeared but there
was always a north/south dimension of
the Cold War and that is the war against
the so-called third world that is in
fact where the fighting really took
place as in Vietnam this new world order
or new international order that Bush is
talking about looks to me like a an
institutionalization or attempt to
institutionalize the north/south
dimension of the old Cold War which was
a war for natural resources for labor
and for markets and our dependence this
that is the Western dependence and
especially the United States economic
dependence on the natural resources of
third world countries is certainly not
going to disappear we need still to
attempt to control those resources and
this Gulf intervention of course is not
at all about stopping naked aggression
we have produced naked aggression we
have connived and naked aggression we
have encouraged naked aggression in many
different ways and that naked aggression
that we have encouraged has often been
very well rewarded
take turkeys occupation since the 1970s
a 1/3 of Cyprus they have received
something like 9 billion dollars in US
aid the Israelis are now at this very
moment occupying the territories they're
occupying part occupying part of Syria
and part of Lebanon there are many
different examples
takeover of East Timor in the 1970s the
United States even encouraged that and
an enormous it may have been 10 or 15
percent of the population of East Timor
was killed in the Indonesian suppression
of their independence they had been a
Portuguese colony up until the
Indonesians tried to annex them many of
us have seen the discussion going on
about who should pay for this how much
the Germans should pay how much the
Japanese should pay how much should be
paid to countries whose economies were
affected by the war
Turkey Jordan Egypt for example this
always seemed like such a false argument
to me the Kuwaitis
have more than 100 billion dollars
invested outside their country true keo
keo the Kuwait Investment Office based
in London with branches in New York and
Madrid and Paris and all over they have
more than 1 billion dollar 100 billion
dollars invested abroad and they have
enormous petroleum reserves I think they
can peak keep on pumping for probably
another hundred years and they won't run
out they will certainly have enough to
pay from past earnings and from future
earnings the salary is the same we went
there first to defend the Saudi regime
and the Saudi natural resources
petroleum they too are making enough
money from it to pay all the cost there
is no reason why one American should pay
one cent for that operation those
countries should pay and that would
conform with reality where in United
States military forces have been
exported abroad like one more export we
used to export you know simply the
hardware tanks aircraft and so forth but
this time we sent across the hardware
and the people to operate it that turned
it into a classic mercenary operation
the sending abroad of military forces to
defend a foreign regime and I don't say
mercenary in a totally derogatory sense
because George Washington may not have
one the war for independence against
Britain if it hadn't been for the
Hessian mercenaries who came over and
fought at his side
well the CIA of course was a very
important tool in the Cold War and
certainly it was important in building
up Saddam Hussein in Iraq I suppose most
of you have read already that the United
States in its support for Iraq all
during that war with Iran was giving
Iraq the best intelligence possible on
Iranian troop movements it was what I've
read is that they were giving them
real-time satellite information so that
they could confront and defeat the
Iranian forces in that war I even read
one very good report from The Washington
Post that the CIA office in Baghdad
became much more important than the
ambassador's own office because that is
the office where the Iraqis wanted to
deal most but the question arises when
we talk about these foreign
interventions whether they are the
secret interventions for the support of
death squads and torture or whether it
is in the sending of 500,000 troops to
smash a third world country that got out
of line we still have to ask the
question why do we do these things and
whose interest are these activities when
I was a trainee in the CIA I was taught
that the Soviet Union's foreign policy
its expansionism its belligerence was a
direct product of the domestic system in
the Soviet Union the requirements of the
Soviet Communist Party to retain a
monopoly on power I think any political
scientist would agree that a society's
or a nation's domestic policy is a
direct product of its domestic system so
if we want to answer the question of why
we do these grisly things abroad like
like hosing all those retreating Iraqi
soldiers who had no way of defending
themselves killing between 100,000 and
to
thousand people well when we want to ask
answer the question of why we do these
things abroad we have to come back I
think and look at the domestic system in
this country and this system of course
is a system in great crisis bush called
the Persian Gulf crisis the greatest
crisis since World War two remember that
the greatest moral crisis since World
War two well of course he was totally
wrong the greatest crisis in world war
two is the domestic crisis in the United
States in education in healthcare we all
know what the domestic crisis is in this
country it is racism it is drugs it is
violence of every sort it is the worst
educational system in the developed
world it is a system in which 1 in 3
people is living in poverty either
totally or in absolute poverty or so
close that they have no relief from want
where one in three people is illiterate
either totally or to the degree that
they cannot function or get along in a
society based on the written word and we
have a system in which one in three
Americans does not even register to vote
and if those who do register 20% of them
don't vote meaning that only about 50%
of the potential voters vote in national
elections in this country therein we
elect a president with about 24 or 25
percent of the potential vote we don't
have popular participation even in the
political process well this is I hate to
say the way it's supposed to be when I
came back to the United States in 1987
for the first time in 17 years you
remember what we were doing don't you we
were celebrating the 200th anniversary
of the Constitution I watched all that
orgy of self-congratulation that year
and it reminded me of a passage in one
of Noam Chomsky's books
turning the tide on Central America in
that book he discussed the
Constitutional Convention of 1787 in
Philadelphia where 55 men got together
in total secrecy not one word was
revealed until more than 50 years after
the convention
one word of what was said there to find
solutions to problems in governing the
United States under the Articles of
Confederation the question arose sti's
Tomsky wrote who really is to govern the
United States and John Jay had the
answer you remember John Jay was the
president of the Continental Congress
that fought the war for independence and
he was also the first Chief Justice of
the United States of the Supreme Court
John Jay had the answer he said well of
course the people who own the United
States ought to govern it and so they
wrote the Constitution at his suggestion
they wrote out of the political process
something like 95% of the inhabitants of
the United States democracy was the last
thing they had in mind in writing the
Constitution there is a book up here
called toward an American Revolution
it's by Jerry Fraser a PhD from UMass at
Amherst
which I tell people would be the best
ten dollars they can spend on a book
during their four five or six years in
university because that is the story of
how the Constitution was adopted and who
the people were who wrote it they were
the elite of colonial society the
lawyers the merchants the bankers the
slaveholders the landowners and so forth
the wealthy people and they wrote it to
protect their wealth they wrote it to
enshrine what is still the first human
right in the United States
all others are secondary the first human
right here is to accumulate wealth and
the power that goes with it all others
like the right to life the right to
education the right to housing the right
to a job the right to proper health care
all those are secondary the Constitution
enshrined that one right before any
other well I highly recommend Frazier's
book that Constitution really is the
root of the problem of the of the
domestic crisis that we have today in my
opinion there have been some 25
amendments amendments and a lot of
legislation over these 200 years
but the rules of the game has laid down
in the Constitution are the same as they
were at the beginning it was the
original pact between the political
forces to keep the political debate in
the United States as narrow as possible
and to make those rules of the game as
hard to change as possible it's the root
of the situation in when we go out and
vote today and we're selecting between
Republicans and Democrats were really
only choosing between on the one hand
Tweedledum and on the other Tweedledee
and there there are there are of course
many people who would like to see a I
sometimes say third and make a mistake a
second party in the United States and
that would be possible but this domestic
crisis crisis makes it very difficult if
we solve the education problem and we
had informed voters and participants in
the political process if we solve health
problems for example if people had a an
attraction to the political process then
there would be a real threat of
democracy in this country and that is
what is behind in my opinion the war
economy in the first place the
continuation of the war economy and the
need for this crisis in the Gulf yes
well I did mention this book by Derrick
for Asia toward American Revolution and
those of course were the original
oligarchs weren't they of this country
if the system has continued of course we
have you know I used to think that Latin
America was terrible in terms of the
distribution of wealth and income but
then I learned from the Catholic Bishops
report on the economy of 1987 I think it
is that 2% of American families owned
54% of the net financial assets of this
country 2% of American families on 54%
of the net financial assets of this
country those are the people who really
run the United States of course and they
are the people for whom that whom the
CIA serves as does Bush and all those
people in the administration and the
professionals who serviced these very
wealthy people those of course are our
version of the Latin American oligarchs
we should also continue in international
solidarity as before the FMLN in El
Salvador and the FDR they need our
solidarity as much as they ever did the
same going the same goes for the FSLN in
Nicaragua and the same goes for Cuba
which is very likely to be seen as
incompatible with Bush's new
international order I've just spent a
week in Cuba I came back from there two
weeks ago and I had probably the most
interesting trip I've had there in the
20 years that I've been coming and going
and working in solidarity with the
revolution they are in extreme crisis
and they need our help
and hope also that we can break the
information blockade on what is really
happening in Cuba so that ordinary
Americans who have a sense of decency
will see that this policy against Cuba
for the last how many years thirty at
least 1960 yeah thirty
is erroneous and that we ought to open
up trade and commerce with Cuba one more
thing that we can do certainly on the
campuses and certainly on a campus like
this where there has been such a long
and important CIA presence is activism
against the CIA on the campuses there
certainly is no there certainly is no
justification in allowing for example
murder incorporated to come on the
campuses of the United States to recruit
young Americans to go into that work
finally I might just mention this last
Thursday I participated in a press
conference with Ramsey Clark in New York
at the UN in which he announced a war
crimes tribunal which will be
international in scope and will seek to
raise all the evidence and information
on war crimes committed by the United
States and its allies against Iraq this
includes all of those items which
specifically fall under the Geneva
Conventions of 1949 including targeting
civilian areas targeting the life
support civilian life support system of
civilians such as water supply such as
electricity such as sewage systems
killing retreating soldiers who have no
way to defend themselves those kinds of
things are all very specifically spelled
out and this is just starting up now
last Thursday the first delegation went
to among five people to start collecting
information from refugees there and it
so happened that just a few days ago I
was speaking with a friend who knows a
family very well whose son had written
home from the Gulf saying that he had
seen with his own eyes u.s. soldiers
executing Iraqi prisoners he wants to
make that public and I urge all of you
who know people who are in the military
who are over there or who have relatives
who somehow can get the word out if
anyone wants to talk about
what happened they have a place to go
and this is to this Tribunal well
finally I would say that we should and
must spread the word about Bush's lies
and his hypocrisy on the Gulf
intervention and his bombing of Iraq
back to the pre-industrial age for no
reason but for his own re-election you
know that last September and October
when were having the elections Bush was
saying the sanctions are working but he
realized that for his own reelection
they might take more than two years to
work and come 1992 and the electoral
campaign he might be seen very much as
Jimmy Carter was seen in 1980 as hostage
to a foreign crisis as weak as
indecisive and he made the decision
right then they're unsure to trade all
these lives for his own re-election
because the sanctions would have worked
no country has ever been blockaded by
the whole world it was like a medieval
city siege and they would have worked
but they wouldn't perhaps have worked
soon enough for Bush's reelection
we must reject his boast when 1992 comes
that he made the world safe from Saddam
Hussein and we must eject eject him from
the white house in order to make the
world safe from George Bush I thank you
the speech of Phil ag's was videotaped
at MIT on the 4th of April 1991 produced
by speak out and here are some of the
names of the people and organizations
that made the production possible if
you're interested in having Phil Agee
speak to your organization here is the
address of speak out in San Francisco
their phone number is four one five
eight six four four five six one you
also might be interested in seeing a
list of publications concerning the CIA
and the Gulf War
there's the covert action information
bulletin lies of our times
the CIA off campus handbook unclassified
Middle East report Palestine focus now
these are ones which are dealing more
specifically with the Gulf War now let's
return to a couple of special reports
and news stories from the alternative
press I saw an interesting testament of
how many civilians there were in the
Iraqi war and that was a estimation by a
German military man who pointed out that
there was a hundred and twenty sort
thousand u.s. sorties allied sorties
flown over Iraq during the forty some
days of the war and he said he
calculates that 150,000 to 200,000
civilians were killed in the US bombing
and among the military he estimates that
160 thousand were killed so this comes
to about half a million victims of the
Araki war and the question that this
german military man raised was it worth
it to quote unquote liberate Kuwait to
kill half a million Iraqis and to
totally destroy their economic and a
human infrastructure of the country with
the most intense bombing raids since
World War two three years ago
prompted by terrifying stories of death
and suffering caused by inaccurate
medical tests from unregulated
laboratories Congress passed the law
establishing strict standards for a
medical laboratory testing throughout
the nation but the law has never been
carried out the Bush administration has
missed virtually every deadline for
action and federal health officials say
that the standards aren't likely to be
enforced before next year if then
problem of delay actually goes back even
further to a 1986 law by Congress which
directed the DHHS to report to to them
on minimum standards that might be used
to regulate laboratories and doctors
offices the report was due in April 1987
so far Congress hasn't seen it this new
law the one was passed in 88 says that
on April 1st 1990 and annually
thereafter the government has to publish
data about the performance of
laboratories that have been penalized
under Medicare Medicaid or convicted
under federal or state laws relating to
fraud and abuse false Billings or
kickbacks the administration has yet to
make that information available by
January 1990 the government was supposed
to establish procedures for imposing
civil and criminal penalties and fines
so forth on laboratories that violated
standards they have yet to adopt such
procedures and they're still working on
some kind of proposal and again the law
directed the Public Health Service to
study five topics
including problems in the diagnosis and
treatment of patients caused by
inaccurate laboratory test results the
reports were supposed to be sent by May
1st 1990 but so far no work has been
done and federal officials say that the
studies will not be completed until 1993
or 1994 even I've got a few more
examples of the kind of thing that's
happened this is pretty good 20 years
after Congress ordered the EPA the
Environmental Protection Agency to
identify and regulate hazardous air
pollutants the agency has issued
emission standards for seven chemicals
in 1987 Congress established a
comprehensive program of assistance to
homeless people
but recently federal district judge
Oliver gash accused the administration
of a complete failure to comply with the
law saying pitifully few unused federal
properties have is made available to
assist the homeless and the government
has yet to issue a final regulations for
cleaning up waste storage sites under in
1984 law as a result thousands of
companies are acting under a cloud of
doubt and uncertainty they may be shut
down at any minute
when when and if these regulations are
however put forth and in most cases
federal officials blame these problems
on the complexities of the laws that
Congress didn't understand what they
were asking and there's not enough money
to set these things up but it's more
likely part of a sort of a broader
attitude by our highest government
officials of contempt for the laws that
are supposed to regulate this nation and
that brings us to the end of another
alternative views we'd like to thank
Eric Ewbank who's our crew for our new
section and the organization's speak out
for providing us with
a tape of the speed by